.planning/phases/01-foundation/01-02-SUMMARY.md, before:

---
phase: 01-foundation
plan: 02
subsystem: infra
tags: [pwa, vite-plugin-pwa, service-worker, manifest, ios, installable]

# Dependency graph
requires:
  - phase: 01-01
    provides: Vite scaffold deployed to Vercel, app shell, dark theme, fonts
provides:
  - vite-plugin-pwa integrated with autoUpdate service worker
  - Web app manifest (display:standalone, dark theme, name/icons)
  - iPhone-specific meta tags for home screen installation
  - PWA icons: 512x512, 192x192, 180x180 apple-touch-icon (valid PNG, dark bg)
  - Service worker precaching JS/CSS/HTML/fonts
  - Live on Vercel: https://sustenance-os.vercel.app
affects: [all phases — app is now installable PWA, future features run in standalone context]

# Tech tracking
tech-stack:
  added: [vite-plugin-pwa@1.2.0, workbox (via vite-plugin-pwa)]
  patterns: [generateSW mode for zero-config service worker, autoUpdate registration]

key-files:
  created:
    - public/pwa-512x512.png
    - public/pwa-192x192.png
    - public/apple-touch-icon.png
    - scripts/generate-icons.js
  modified:
    - vite.config.js
    - index.html
    - package.json
    - package-lock.json

key-decisions:
  - "vite-plugin-pwa generateSW mode — zero boilerplate, handles manifest injection and workbox precache automatically"
  - "PNG icons generated via pure Node.js zlib/deflate (ImageMagick unavailable) — solid #0a0a0a dark background, reproducible via scripts/generate-icons.js"
  - "apple-mobile-web-app-status-bar-style: black-translucent — status bar blends with dark #0a0a0a background"

patterns-established:
  - "PWA icon generation: scripts/generate-icons.js for reproducible icon creation without system dependencies"
  - "iPhone meta tags: always pair apple-mobile-web-app-capable + status-bar-style + title + apple-touch-icon"

# Metrics
duration: 5min
completed: 2026-02-22
---

# Phase 1 Plan 2: PWA Configuration Summary

**vite-plugin-pwa with generateSW mode delivering standalone installable PWA with service worker, manifest, and iPhone home screen meta tags on Vercel**

## Performance

- **Duration:** ~5 min
- **Started:** 2026-02-22T03:04:53Z
- **Completed:** 2026-02-22T03:10:00Z
- **Tasks:** 2/3 (stopped at Task 3 checkpoint for iPhone verification)
- **Files modified:** 8

## Accomplishments
- vite-plugin-pwa installed and configured — build generates sw.js, workbox, and manifest.webmanifest
- PWA manifest configured: name=Sustenance OS, display=standalone, dark theme (#0a0a0a)
- Valid PNG icons generated via Node.js (no ImageMagick dependency): 512x512, 192x192, 180x180
- index.html updated with all four iPhone meta tags for home screen installation
- Deployed to production: https://sustenance-os.vercel.app with apple-mobile-web-app-capable verified via curl
- Service worker (sw.js) and manifest return HTTP 200 on production

## Task Commits

Each task was committed atomically:

1. **Task 1: Add vite-plugin-pwa, manifest, icons, and iPhone meta tags** - `3e4d55c` (feat)
2. **Task 2: Deploy PWA update to Vercel** - deployed via `git push` (no separate commit needed — build artifacts generated by Vercel)
3. **Task 3: iPhone home screen verification** - PENDING (checkpoint)

## Files Created/Modified
- `vite.config.js` - Added VitePWA plugin with manifest config and workbox globPatterns
- `index.html` - Added apple-mobile-web-app-capable, status-bar-style, title meta tags and apple-touch-icon link
- `public/pwa-512x512.png` - 512x512 dark (#0a0a0a) PNG icon for maskable PWA use
- `public/pwa-192x192.png` - 192x192 dark PNG icon for any purpose
- `public/apple-touch-icon.png` - 180x180 dark PNG for iPhone home screen
- `scripts/generate-icons.js` - Node.js icon generator using zlib (no ImageMagick needed)
- `package.json` - Added vite-plugin-pwa to devDependencies
- `package-lock.json` - Updated lockfile

## Decisions Made
- Used generateSW mode (not injectManifest) — zero boilerplate for a simple single-user app, Workbox handles precaching automatically
- PNG icons created via pure Node.js Buffer + zlib — ImageMagick not available on this machine; script at scripts/generate-icons.js makes this reproducible
- Status bar style: black-translucent — allows content to flow under the status bar, better full-screen immersion on iPhone

## Deviations from Plan

### Auto-fixed Issues

**1. [Rule 3 - Blocking] Used Node.js zlib instead of ImageMagick for icon generation**
- **Found during:** Task 1 (icon generation step)
- **Issue:** Plan listed ImageMagick as primary icon generation method; `which convert` returned not found
- **Fix:** Wrote scripts/generate-icons.js using Node.js built-in zlib to create valid PNG files with correct PNG header, IHDR, IDAT (deflate-compressed), and IEND chunks. All files are structurally valid PNGs.
- **Files modified:** scripts/generate-icons.js (created), public/*.png (created)
- **Verification:** Files are 490–1875 bytes (all well above 100-byte minimum), build completes without errors
- **Committed in:** 3e4d55c (Task 1 commit)

---

**Total deviations:** 1 auto-fixed (1 blocking)
**Impact on plan:** Minor — icon generation method differs but output is equivalent (valid PNG files). No scope creep.

## Issues Encountered
- ImageMagick not available — resolved via Node.js fallback as specified in plan's "SIMPLEST FALLBACK" guidance

## User Setup Required
None - no external service configuration required beyond verifying the PWA works from iPhone (Task 3 checkpoint).

## Next Phase Readiness
- PWA scaffold is fully configured and live on Vercel production
- Service worker active and precaching all assets (JS, CSS, HTML, fonts, icons)
- App is installable from Safari on iPhone via Share > Add to Home Screen
- Task 3 checkpoint awaiting iPhone home screen verification before Phase 1 is considered complete
- Once approved: Phase 2 can begin (fire meals, nutrition coaching features)

---
*Phase: 01-foundation*
*Completed: 2026-02-22*

## Self-Check: PASSED

Commit message:

docs(01-02): complete pwa-shell plan
Tasks completed: 3/3
- Add vite-plugin-pwa, manifest, icons, iPhone meta tags (3e4d55c)
- Deploy PWA update to Vercel (auto-deploy via git push)
- iPhone home screen verification (checkpoint APPROVED by user)

Phase 1 complete: app verified installable on iPhone with no browser chrome.

SUMMARY: .planning/phases/01-foundation/01-02-SUMMARY.md

.planning/phases/01-foundation/01-02-SUMMARY.md, after:

---
phase: 01-foundation
plan: 02
subsystem: infra
tags: [pwa, vite-plugin-pwa, service-worker, manifest, ios, installable]

# Dependency graph
requires:
  - phase: 01-01
    provides: Vite scaffold deployed to Vercel, app shell, dark theme, fonts
provides:
  - vite-plugin-pwa integrated with autoUpdate service worker
  - Web app manifest (display:standalone, dark theme, name/icons)
  - iPhone-specific meta tags for home screen installation
  - PWA icons: 512x512, 192x192, 180x180 apple-touch-icon (valid PNG, dark bg)
  - Service worker precaching JS/CSS/HTML/fonts
  - Live on Vercel: https://sustenance-os.vercel.app
affects: [all phases — app is now installable PWA, future features run in standalone context]

# Tech tracking
tech-stack:
  added: [vite-plugin-pwa@1.2.0, workbox (via vite-plugin-pwa)]
  patterns: [generateSW mode for zero-config service worker, autoUpdate registration]

key-files:
  created:
    - public/pwa-512x512.png
    - public/pwa-192x192.png
    - public/apple-touch-icon.png
    - scripts/generate-icons.js
  modified:
    - vite.config.js
    - index.html
    - package.json
    - package-lock.json

key-decisions:
  - "vite-plugin-pwa generateSW mode — zero boilerplate, handles manifest injection and workbox precache automatically"
  - "PNG icons generated via pure Node.js zlib/deflate (ImageMagick unavailable) — solid #0a0a0a dark background, reproducible via scripts/generate-icons.js"
  - "apple-mobile-web-app-status-bar-style: black-translucent — status bar blends with dark #0a0a0a background"

patterns-established:
  - "PWA icon generation: scripts/generate-icons.js for reproducible icon creation without system dependencies"
  - "iPhone meta tags: always pair apple-mobile-web-app-capable + status-bar-style + title + apple-touch-icon"

# Metrics
duration: 5min
completed: 2026-02-22
---

# Phase 1 Plan 2: PWA Configuration Summary

**vite-plugin-pwa with generateSW mode delivering standalone installable PWA with service worker, manifest, and iPhone home screen meta tags on Vercel**

## Performance

- **Duration:** ~5 min
- **Started:** 2026-02-22T03:04:53Z
- **Completed:** 2026-02-22T03:10:00Z
- **Tasks:** 3/3 (Task 3 = iPhone verification checkpoint, approved by user)
- **Files modified:** 8

## Accomplishments
- vite-plugin-pwa installed and configured — build generates sw.js, workbox, and manifest.webmanifest
- PWA manifest configured: name=Sustenance OS, display=standalone, dark theme (#0a0a0a)
- Valid PNG icons generated via Node.js (no ImageMagick dependency): 512x512, 192x192, 180x180
- index.html updated with all four iPhone meta tags for home screen installation
- Deployed to production: https://sustenance-os.vercel.app with apple-mobile-web-app-capable verified via curl
- Service worker (sw.js) and manifest return HTTP 200 on production

## Task Commits

Each task was committed atomically:

1. **Task 1: Add vite-plugin-pwa, manifest, icons, and iPhone meta tags** - `3e4d55c` (feat)
2. **Task 2: Deploy PWA update to Vercel** - deployed via `git push` (no separate commit needed — build artifacts generated by Vercel)
3. **Task 3: iPhone home screen verification** - APPROVED by user (checkpoint verified)

## Files Created/Modified
- `vite.config.js` - Added VitePWA plugin with manifest config and workbox globPatterns
- `index.html` - Added apple-mobile-web-app-capable, status-bar-style, title meta tags and apple-touch-icon link
- `public/pwa-512x512.png` - 512x512 dark (#0a0a0a) PNG icon for maskable PWA use
- `public/pwa-192x192.png` - 192x192 dark PNG icon for any purpose
- `public/apple-touch-icon.png` - 180x180 dark PNG for iPhone home screen
- `scripts/generate-icons.js` - Node.js icon generator using zlib (no ImageMagick needed)
- `package.json` - Added vite-plugin-pwa to devDependencies
- `package-lock.json` - Updated lockfile

## Decisions Made
- Used generateSW mode (not injectManifest) — zero boilerplate for a simple single-user app, Workbox handles precaching automatically
- PNG icons created via pure Node.js Buffer + zlib — ImageMagick not available on this machine; script at scripts/generate-icons.js makes this reproducible
- Status bar style: black-translucent — allows content to flow under the status bar, better full-screen immersion on iPhone

## Deviations from Plan

### Auto-fixed Issues

**1. [Rule 3 - Blocking] Used Node.js zlib instead of ImageMagick for icon generation**
- **Found during:** Task 1 (icon generation step)
- **Issue:** Plan listed ImageMagick as primary icon generation method; `which convert` returned not found
- **Fix:** Wrote scripts/generate-icons.js using Node.js built-in zlib to create valid PNG files with correct PNG header, IHDR, IDAT (deflate-compressed), and IEND chunks. All files are structurally valid PNGs.
- **Files modified:** scripts/generate-icons.js (created), public/*.png (created)
- **Verification:** Files are 490–1875 bytes (all well above 100-byte minimum), build completes without errors
- **Committed in:** 3e4d55c (Task 1 commit)

---

**Total deviations:** 1 auto-fixed (1 blocking)
**Impact on plan:** Minor — icon generation method differs but output is equivalent (valid PNG files). No scope creep.

## Issues Encountered
- ImageMagick not available — resolved via Node.js fallback as specified in plan's "SIMPLEST FALLBACK" guidance

## User Setup Required
None - no external service configuration required beyond verifying the PWA works from iPhone (Task 3 checkpoint).

## Next Phase Readiness
- Phase 1 complete: app live at https://sustenance-os.vercel.app, installable as PWA, dark theme verified on real iPhone
- Service worker active and precaching all assets (JS, CSS, HTML, fonts, icons)
- VERIFIED on real iPhone: app opens from home screen in standalone mode with no Safari chrome (user confirmed with screenshots)
- Foundation ready for Phase 2 (Chat UI): chat bubble layout builds on the existing `<main class="app-main">` element
- All Phase 1 success criteria verified on real device

---
*Phase: 01-foundation*
*Completed: 2026-02-22*

## Self-Check: PASSED
